src/content/blog/courage.md, before:

---
title: "🦁 Trump and Courage"
date: "2024-07-14"
wpSlug: "courage"
lang: "en"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20240714-ubhf.jpeg"
pairedSlug: "용기"

tags: ["courage", "leftism", "eschatology"]
---

This morning, the world woke up to the shocking news of an assassination attempt on President Donald Trump. While alarming, it was, in a way, unsurprising—a culmination of years of incessant inflammatory rhetoric from the Left. For nearly a decade, leftist Democrats and mainstream media outlets have relentlessly labeled Trump as a threat to democracy, comparing him to Hitler and suggesting the world would be better off without him. This dangerous narrative has now borne its inevitable fruit.

For the past nine years, I have been a silent supporter of Trump. Despite firmly believing he is the leader who can take on the globalist Deep State in the US and the world, I kept my support hidden, fearing social ostracism and potential repercussions for my family's safety and wellbeing. I used to think that my self-censorship was the best course of action for our immediate safety. While I still believe my wife as the mother should prioritise our family’s immediate safety, I now realise that when fathers like me self-censor, we create a society that is ultimately worse for our families in the long run. By not speaking out, we allow the Overton window to continue its [leftward march](/leftism-eng), resulting in dangerous narratives such as the satanic [climate cult](/climate), [gender ideology](/pride-month), and TDS—Trump Derangement Syndrome, the demonisation of Trump and his supporters—to continue unchallenged.

The most powerful image from last night is seared into my mind: President Trump, even after being shot and bleeding profusely from his ear, chose to get up and address the crowd. With a raised fist, the defiant Trump shouted, “**_Fight! Fight! Fight!_**” They say that combat reveals one’s true character, and yesterday, we saw Trump’s true character. He is no coward; he is a man of true courage and a warrior for everything good that I believe in, including the USA.

Trump’s actions have inspired me to do my part. I will no longer cower in fear. It is time to rise up and rebuke these deluded leftist lunatics, putting them in their rightful places. My newfound resolve is not about creating unnecessary conflict but about standing firm in my beliefs and protecting the future of our nation and my family. From now on, I will speak my mind freely and not apologise for my opinions.

I now understand that my silence has only served to empower those who threaten the values I cherish. It is time to stand firm in the faith, act like men, and be strong. To [take a stand](/name-of-jesus), to speak out, and to plant the flag on the hill to say “enough is enough.” When more ordinary men like me start doing this, we will contribute to a society that is better for all our families in the long run.

It seems to me that there are [three distinct categories](/three) for ordering the life of a Christian. Believers striving to live in obedience to God’s Word, guided by the Holy Spirit, need to navigate between three key areas when ordering their thoughts, words, and actions:

1.  The church realm, where we focus on [preaching the gospel](/evangelism) and making disciples of all nations.
2.  The civic realm, where Christians organise to support the lesser of evils to curb the world’s free-fall corruption and [opposing communism](/leftism-eng) in every sphere of our lives. You could say that my resolve expressed in the above paragraphs falls into this category.
3.  The eternal realm, where we eagerly wait for Jesus’ [glorious appearing](/rapture), the Millennium Kingdom, and the final establishment of New Heavens, New Earth, and the New Jerusalem.

While we focus our lives on being faithful in the first two realms, we must not lose sight of the third realm, in that true justice will be realised in this world only upon Jesus’ glorious return when he will finally establish [the Millennial Kingdom](/throne-of-david) and rule the whole world with a rod of iron. Personally, I am convinced that King Jesus will appoint me to be in the elite squad to tour the world and annihilate all remnants of communism in the His name. The thought of ruling the world together with Him for one thousand years during the Messianic Kingdom really excites me.

But until the Second Coming, the Bible clearly tells us that the world will grow increasingly wicked, with people loving themselves, money, and pleasure. While we do our utmost in preaching the Gospel, making disciples and pushing back against the Left, we must remember that this world cannot be restored by mere human effort. Unfortunately, many believers and church leaders hold to a [amillennial](/labels) or post-millennial eschatology and believe that we can transform this world in Jesus’s name before his Second Coming. But this is not Biblical Christianity. In fact, trying to establish the millennial kingdom (utopia) by their own effort (the technical term is to “immanentise the eschaton”) is the working definition of Leftism/Marxism/Gnosticism. 

In the face of growing wickedness and societal decay, it is clear that silence and self-censorship are no longer viable options. Inspired by President Trump’s raw physical courage and the call to fight for what is right, I am resolved to stand firm in my beliefs, boldly speaking out against the leftist lies that threaten to destroy everything I love. As Christians, we must focus on preaching the gospel, supporting righteous governance, boldly pushing back against leftism in all its forms, all the while not forgetting to eagerly wait for the glorious appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. We must remember that justice will be realised on the earth only after He establishes His Millennial Kingdom. Until then, let us  rise, [speak the truth](/seven-taboos), & [preach the gospel](/evangelism), knowing that our ultimate hope lies not in this world, but in the glorious future promised by our Savior. [Maranatha](/eschatology)! Even so, come Lord Jesus!

Commit message:

Add: end-of-post Update notes across 28 EN + 28 KO posts — forward links to related newer entries

src/content/blog/courage.md, after:

---
title: "🦁 Trump and Courage"
date: "2024-07-14"
wpSlug: "courage"
lang: "en"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20240714-ubhf.jpeg"
pairedSlug: "용기"

tags: ["courage", "leftism", "eschatology"]
---

This morning, the world woke up to the shocking news of an assassination attempt on President Donald Trump. While alarming, it was, in a way, unsurprising—a culmination of years of incessant inflammatory rhetoric from the Left. For nearly a decade, leftist Democrats and mainstream media outlets have relentlessly labeled Trump as a threat to democracy, comparing him to Hitler and suggesting the world would be better off without him. This dangerous narrative has now borne its inevitable fruit.

For the past nine years, I have been a silent supporter of Trump. Despite firmly believing he is the leader who can take on the globalist Deep State in the US and the world, I kept my support hidden, fearing social ostracism and potential repercussions for my family’s safety and wellbeing. I used to think that my self-censorship was the best course of action for our immediate safety. While I still believe my wife as the mother should prioritise our family’s immediate safety, I now realise that when fathers like me self-censor, we create a society that is ultimately worse for our families in the long run. By not speaking out, we allow the Overton window to continue its [leftward march](/leftism-eng), resulting in dangerous narratives such as the satanic [climate cult](/climate), [gender ideology](/pride-month), and TDS—Trump Derangement Syndrome, the demonisation of Trump and his supporters—to continue unchallenged.

The most powerful image from last night is seared into my mind: President Trump, even after being shot and bleeding profusely from his ear, chose to get up and address the crowd. With a raised fist, the defiant Trump shouted, “**_Fight! Fight! Fight!_**” They say that combat reveals one’s true character, and yesterday, we saw Trump’s true character. He is no coward; he is a man of true courage and a warrior for everything good that I believe in, including the USA.

Trump’s actions have inspired me to do my part. I will no longer cower in fear. It is time to rise up and rebuke these deluded leftist lunatics, putting them in their rightful places. My newfound resolve is not about creating unnecessary conflict but about standing firm in my beliefs and protecting the future of our nation and my family. From now on, I will speak my mind freely and not apologise for my opinions.

I now understand that my silence has only served to empower those who threaten the values I cherish. It is time to stand firm in the faith, act like men, and be strong. To [take a stand](/name-of-jesus), to speak out, and to plant the flag on the hill to say “enough is enough.” When more ordinary men like me start doing this, we will contribute to a society that is better for all our families in the long run.

It seems to me that there are [three distinct categories](/three) for ordering the life of a Christian. Believers striving to live in obedience to God’s Word, guided by the Holy Spirit, need to navigate between three key areas when ordering their thoughts, words, and actions:

1.  The church realm, where we focus on [preaching the gospel](/evangelism) and making disciples of all nations.
2.  The civic realm, where Christians organise to support the lesser of evils to curb the world’s free-fall corruption and [opposing communism](/leftism-eng) in every sphere of our lives. You could say that my resolve expressed in the above paragraphs falls into this category.
3.  The eternal realm, where we eagerly wait for Jesus’ [glorious appearing](/rapture), the Millennium Kingdom, and the final establishment of New Heavens, New Earth, and the New Jerusalem.

While we focus our lives on being faithful in the first two realms, we must not lose sight of the third realm, in that true justice will be realised in this world only upon Jesus’ glorious return when he will finally establish [the Millennial Kingdom](/throne-of-david) and rule the whole world with a rod of iron. Personally, I am convinced that King Jesus will appoint me to be in the elite squad to tour the world and annihilate all remnants of communism in the His name. The thought of ruling the world together with Him for one thousand years during the Messianic Kingdom really excites me.

But until the Second Coming, the Bible clearly tells us that the world will grow increasingly wicked, with people loving themselves, money, and pleasure. While we do our utmost in preaching the Gospel, making disciples and pushing back against the Left, we must remember that this world cannot be restored by mere human effort. Unfortunately, many believers and church leaders hold to a [amillennial](/labels) or post-millennial eschatology and believe that we can transform this world in Jesus’s name before his Second Coming. But this is not Biblical Christianity. In fact, trying to establish the millennial kingdom (utopia) by their own effort (the technical term is to “immanentise the eschaton”) is the working definition of Leftism/Marxism/Gnosticism. 

In the face of growing wickedness and societal decay, it is clear that silence and self-censorship are no longer viable options. Inspired by President Trump’s raw physical courage and the call to fight for what is right, I am resolved to stand firm in my beliefs, boldly speaking out against the leftist lies that threaten to destroy everything I love. As Christians, we must focus on preaching the gospel, supporting righteous governance, boldly pushing back against leftism in all its forms, all the while not forgetting to eagerly wait for the glorious appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. We must remember that justice will be realised on the earth only after He establishes His Millennial Kingdom. Until then, let us  rise, [speak the truth](/seven-taboos), & [preach the gospel](/evangelism), knowing that our ultimate hope lies not in this world, but in the glorious future promised by our Savior. [Maranatha](/eschatology)! Even so, come Lord Jesus!

—-

**Update:** fifteen months later, tragedy — and a reckoning — [An End Time Prophet’s Cry](/kirk/).
