src/content/blog/iran.md, before:

---
title: "🦁 Why I believe Iran Regime Change is Soon"
date: "2025-06-17"
wpSlug: "iran"
lang: "en"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20250617-jzj.jpeg"
pairedSlug: "이란"

tags: ["eschatology", "israel"]
---

In recent months, as tensions flare between Israel and Iran, many have rightly turned to the pages of Scripture, particularly Ezekiel 38–39, to discern what may be unfolding before our eyes. Ezekiel’s vision speaks of a confederation of nations—among them Persia (modern-day Iran)—marching against Israel not to annihilate, but to plunder. This distinction is critical.

The late Chuck Missler, a faithful expositor of prophecy, [wisely distinguished the war described in Psalm 83 from Ezekiel’s vision](https://youtu.be/RwLJxkXQdZk). Psalm 83 describes a coalition bent on Israel’s destruction—an exact match to what we witnessed in **the 2023–2024 Israel-Hamas War**. Iran, through its proxies—Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis—sought to wipe Israel off the map. And just as Scripture foretold, they were resoundingly defeated. The Psalm 83 war was a war of elimination; Ezekiel’s war, by contrast, is a war of exploitation. The invaders, a coalition including Russia, Turkey, and Iran, but notably excluding Israel’s immediate neighbours, will come not out of hatred but for gain—against a nation “at rest… without walls” (Ezekiel 38:11).

This raises an important question: when will Israel be “at rest”? That is certainly not the case in mid-2025, with war still raging. But we can also see how this could come about. So far, we have witnessed history-making miraculous feats such as **the Pager Operation** decimating Hezebollah leadership, and **the 13 June 2025 Operation Rising Lion** that has so far destroyed Iran’s air force, air defences, and much of their nuclear ambitions. Hamas is also decimated. Houthis have been de-fanged by the Trump Administration. All this may soon bring an overwhelming, almost miraculous, shift in the region—including a regime change in Iran—leaving Israel feeling secure enough to let down her guard.

But here’s the critical insight I believe many are missing: Iran, under its current regime since 1979, is entirely incompatible with Ezekiel’s prophecy. I’ve even seen some Bible prophecy experts arguing that regime change in Iran will not occur because they must be part of the Ezekiel 38 war. This is clearly muddled-up thinking. The Ayatollah’s regime is not driven by profit but by a fanatical, apocalyptic desire to erase Israel. No such regime goes to war for plunder as described in Ezekiel 38:11-12. This is why I believe a regime change in Iran is not only plausible—it is prophetically necessary. Only a new leadership—perhaps secular, pragmatic, even opportunistic—could fulfil Iran’s role in Ezekiel 38: not to destroy, but to invade a wealthy, confident Israel for spoil.

The prophetic puzzle pieces are falling into place. If Iran shifts course, as I suspect it will in 2025, then Ezekiel’s war is on the near horizon. But before that happens—or when that happens—another event, sudden and far more dramatic and glorious, will occur: [the Rapture of the Church](/rapture). The Lord will call His own home, and we will be clothed in resurrection bodies in the twinkling of an eye, to meet Him in the air. The question is not whether prophecy is unfolding—it is. The real question is: Are you ready? Repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ today. _[Time is short](/End3)_.

Commit message:

Add: 🦁 Operation Epic Fury (EN+KO) + update iran/이란 posts

src/content/blog/iran.md, after:

---
title: "🦁 Why I believe Iran Regime Change is Soon"
date: "2025-06-17"
wpSlug: "iran"
lang: "en"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20250617-jzj.jpeg"
pairedSlug: "이란"

tags: ["eschatology", "israel"]
---

In recent months, as tensions flare between Israel and Iran, many have rightly turned to the pages of Scripture, particularly Ezekiel 38–39, to discern what may be unfolding before our eyes. Ezekiel’s vision speaks of a confederation of nations-among them Persia (modern-day Iran)-marching against Israel not to annihilate, but to plunder. This distinction is critical.

The late Chuck Missler, a faithful expositor of prophecy, [wisely distinguished the war described in Psalm 83 from Ezekiel’s vision](https://youtu.be/RwLJxkXQdZk). Psalm 83 describes a coalition bent on Israel’s destruction-an exact match to what we witnessed in **the 2023–2024 Israel-Hamas War**. Iran, through its proxies-Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis-sought to wipe Israel off the map. And just as Scripture foretold, they were resoundingly defeated. The Psalm 83 war was a war of elimination; Ezekiel’s war, by contrast, is a war of exploitation. The invaders, a coalition including Russia, Turkey, and Iran, but notably excluding Israel’s immediate neighbours, will come not out of hatred but for gain-against a nation “at rest… without walls” (Ezekiel 38:11).

This raises an important question: when will Israel be “at rest”? That is certainly not the case in mid-2025, with war still raging. But we can also see how this could come about. So far, we have witnessed history-making miraculous feats such as **the Pager Operation** decimating Hezebollah leadership, and **the 13 June 2025 Operation Rising Lion** that has so far destroyed Iran’s air force, air defences, and much of their nuclear ambitions. Hamas is also decimated. Houthis have been de-fanged by the Trump Administration. All this may soon bring an overwhelming, almost miraculous, shift in the region-including a regime change in Iran-leaving Israel feeling secure enough to let down her guard.

But here’s the critical insight I believe many are missing: Iran, under its current regime since 1979, is entirely incompatible with Ezekiel’s prophecy. I’ve even seen some Bible prophecy experts arguing that regime change in Iran will not occur because they must be part of the Ezekiel 38 war. This is clearly muddled-up thinking. The Ayatollah’s regime is not driven by profit but by a fanatical, apocalyptic desire to erase Israel. No such regime goes to war for plunder as described in Ezekiel 38:11–12. This is why I believe a regime change in Iran is not only plausible-it is prophetically necessary. Only a new leadership-perhaps secular, pragmatic, even opportunistic-could fulfil Iran’s role in Ezekiel 38: not to destroy, but to invade a wealthy, confident Israel for spoil.

The prophetic puzzle pieces are falling into place. If Iran shifts course, as I suspect it will in 2025, then Ezekiel’s war is on the near horizon. But before that happens—or when that happens—another event, sudden and far more dramatic and glorious, will occur: [the Rapture of the Church](/rapture). The Lord will call His own home, and we will be clothed in resurrection bodies in the twinkling of an eye, to meet Him in the air. The question is not whether prophecy is unfolding—it is. The real question is: Are you ready? Repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ today. _[Time is short](/End3)_.

—-

**Update — 1 March 2026:** It happened. On 28 February 2026, a joint US–Israel precision operation — **Operation Epic Fury** — decapitated the leadership of the Islamic Republic. The regime I said was prophetically incompatible with Ezekiel 38 is gone. Iranians across the world are celebrating. I have written a full follow-up: [🦁 Operation Epic Fury: The Fall of the Ayatollahs →](/epic-fury/)
