src/content/blog/mymortgageinsight-en.md, before:

---
title: "💰 Getting Paid for My Coding Work"
date: "2023-07-28"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "mymortgageinsight"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20231019-lhv.png"
tags: ["tech", "testimony"]
---

Today is a milestone. For the first time, I got paid for coding work done outside of my day job. It's a small amount—but that's not the point. The point is that it happened. Thank You, Lord. May this be the beginning of something much greater.

A bit of context on the project itself: the UK has been in the grip of a cost-of-living crisis, and over the past year I've watched people around me—friends, church members, colleagues—start to panic as their fixed-rate mortgage deals come to an end. Interest rates have risen sharply, and everyone knows their monthly payments are going up. But not knowing *by how much* turns out to be its own particular kind of torment. That gap between "I know something bad is coming" and "I don't know how bad" is where anxiety breeds.

I wanted to close that gap. Not with a spreadsheet buried in email—with something anyone could use without thinking too hard about it. Move some sliders, get a clear number. Know your new monthly payment. Plan from there.

The result is [mymortgageinsight](https://mymortgageinsight.streamlit.app)—a simple Streamlit app that does exactly that. It's not glamorous. But it's useful, it was built with care, and apparently someone found it worth paying for.

I hope it's the start of greater things to come. TYG!

Commit message:

Add: end-of-post Update notes across 28 EN + 28 KO posts — forward links to related newer entries

src/content/blog/mymortgageinsight-en.md, after:

---
title: "💰 Getting Paid for My Coding Work"
date: "2023-07-28"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "mymortgageinsight"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20231019-lhv.png"
tags: ["tech", "testimony"]
---

Today is a milestone. For the first time, I got paid for coding work done outside of my day job. It’s a small amount—but that’s not the point. The point is that it happened. Thank You, Lord. May this be the beginning of something much greater.

A bit of context on the project itself: the UK has been in the grip of a cost-of-living crisis, and over the past year I’ve watched people around me—friends, church members, colleagues—start to panic as their fixed-rate mortgage deals come to an end. Interest rates have risen sharply, and everyone knows their monthly payments are going up. But not knowing *by how much* turns out to be its own particular kind of torment. That gap between “I know something bad is coming” and “I don’t know how bad” is where anxiety breeds.

I wanted to close that gap. Not with a spreadsheet buried in email—with something anyone could use without thinking too hard about it. Move some sliders, get a clear number. Know your new monthly payment. Plan from there.

The result is [mymortgageinsight](https://mymortgageinsight.streamlit.app)—a simple Streamlit app that does exactly that. It’s not glamorous. But it’s useful, it was built with care, and apparently someone found it worth paying for.

I hope it’s the start of greater things to come. TYG!

—-

**Update:** it was indeed the start of something greater — [two years later, I co-founded JD Fortress AI and launched Bible Fortress](/bible-app/).
