src/content/blog/recon.md, before:

---
title: "🏰 Spiritual Recon at Glastonbury"
date: "2024-11-01"
wpSlug: "recon"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "정찰"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20241103-u7b-scaled.jpeg"

tags: ["evangelism", "travel"]
---

From October 30th to November 1st, 2024, my two sons, our loyal Jindo dog Bobby, and I embarked on a spiritual reconnaissance trip to Glastonbury—a place rich in Christian heritage but currently overshadowed by pagan practices. While my wife and daughter chose to stay home, this became a boys’ adventure and mission to scope out the historic site with a view to [reclaiming it for Christ](/tor).

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4620-1024x768.jpeg)

Our journey began with a drive to our campsite near Cheddar Gorge. Being late October, we found ourselves the sole campers on the site, which granted us the solitude to fully immerse in our mission. The early dusk allowed us to kindle a campfire sooner, around which we shared stories and prepared for the days ahead. My sons experienced the simple joys of roasting marshmallows and making s’mores for the first time. Bobby, ever the faithful companion, added to the warmth of the evening with his playful energy.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4723-1024x768.jpeg)

Inspired by [my recent experience at XCC](/XCC) and also by Jon Tyson’s book “Intentional Father,” I saw this trip as an opportunity to guide my sons through an adventure that would challenge them and deepen their faith. The journey from the familiar to the unknown, with a mission and the prospect of spiritual battle on the horizon, had all the makings of an epic adventure.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4625-1024x768.jpeg)

Our second day commenced with the 8:00 Morning Liturgy at the magnificent Wells Cathedral. The New Testament reading was from Ephesians 6:10-18—on the nature of spiritual warfare and the full armour of God. This passage felt like a divine appointment, a call to arms that resonated deeply with our purpose for the trip.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4636-1024x768.jpeg)

As we approached Glastonbury, a massive sign greeted us: “Glastonbury: Home of Halloween.” Unbeknownst to us when planning, our visit coincided with Halloween—a day of great significance for pagan and witchcraft communities. This revelation intensified our mission, highlighting the spiritual battle we were stepping into.

Walking down the High Street, we were struck by the overt presence of paganism. We counted at least 20 shops dedicated to witchcraft and New Age practices, forming a bustling cottage industry that has turned Glastonbury into a pilgrimage site for practitioners nationwide. Men and women openly dressed as wizards and witches filled the streets, proudly displaying their spiritual allegiances. We discreetly referred to the witches/wizards as ‘tees’ to avoid drawing attention while discussing our observations among ourselves. “Dad, another pair of tees behind us!” was a regular exchange. Overall, the three of us agreed that about 70% of the people we encountered in Glastonbury were clearly involved in these practices.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4643-1024x768.jpeg)

After exploring the High Street, we visited the Glastonbury Abbey site and museum to research the area’s profound Christian heritage. Learning about its history as the Isle of Avalon, where Joseph of Arimathea is believed to have arrived with eleven disciples in AD 63, reinforced the significance of our mission. It was a poignant reminder of Glastonbury’s foundational role in bringing Christianity to the British Isles.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4711-768x1024.jpeg)

The pinnacle of our day was ascending the Glastonbury Tor. We carried our wooden cross—the same one we use during our [weekly street evangelism](/evangelism)—inscribed with “JESUS IS LORD” in English and Hebrew. This act was a deliberate, visual testimony of our faith amidst an environment that seemed to celebrate everything but.

Blessed with glorious weather, we made the climb under clear skies. Reaching the summit, we planted ourselves in prayer, declaring the lordship of Jesus Christ over the area. The panoramic views were not just a feast for the eyes but a canvas upon which we envisioned a spiritual revival.

A few people mentioned our cross in a complimentary way. One gentleman even thanked us, saying he has not seen anyone carry a cross up here in the last fourteen years and asking for a photo. Just as we were about to leave, we spotted a group of New Age practitioners in the St Michael’s Tower gathered in a tight circle and spontaneously bursting into an unintelligible chant. More and more witches/wizards joined in, and the whole thing really reminded us of the overtly pagan atmosphere atop the Tor. As we descended the hill, we could only imagine what kind of rituals would take place under St Michael’s Tower that very evening.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4716-1024x768.jpeg)

Embracing the spirit of adventure, we headed to the famous Cheddar Gorge later that afternoon. In the fading light, we embarked on an impromptu climb up one of the gorges. The path was uncertain and the climb was steep—an embodiment of stepping from safety into risk. Bobby bounded ahead; we had no idea he had this mountain goat inside of him!

At the summit, we were rewarded with breathtaking views and a profound sense of accomplishment. Sharing snacks atop the gorge, we reflected on the parallels between our physical journey and the spiritual path we are called to walk.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4734-1-1024x768.jpeg)

We returned to Wells Cathedral morning liturgy on our final morning before breakfasting and breaking camp. Packing up, we felt a mix of fulfilment and resolve. The trip had been a success, not just in terms of the adventure but in solidifying our commitment to the mission ahead. Witnessing the overt paganism in Glastonbury, especially during Halloween, highlighted the pressing need for believers to reclaim such spaces for Christ.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4680-1024x768.jpeg)

Our three-day journey was more than an adventure; it was a mission empowered by and protected by the Holy Spirit. The absence of my wife and daughter turned it into a unique father-son experience, allowing us to delve deeply into the challenges and joys of spiritual warfare.

We returned home with a renewed sense of purpose and a deeper bond. The journey reinforced the importance of standing firm in our faith, even when faced with overt opposition. I pray that our small steps will contribute to a larger movement—a national revival where millions will come to know Jesus as their personal Lord and Saviour, living holy lives in anticipation of His glorious return.

> “Watch, stand fast in the faith, act like men, be strong.”
> 
> 1 Corinthians 16:13
![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4737-1024x768.jpeg)

Commit message:

Add: end-of-post Update notes across 28 EN + 28 KO posts — forward links to related newer entries

src/content/blog/recon.md, after:

---
title: "🏰 Spiritual Recon at Glastonbury"
date: "2024-11-01"
wpSlug: "recon"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "정찰"
featuredImage: "/assets/SCR-20241103-u7b-scaled.jpeg"

tags: ["evangelism", "travel"]
---

From October 30th to November 1st, 2024, my two sons, our loyal Jindo dog Bobby, and I embarked on a spiritual reconnaissance trip to Glastonbury—a place rich in Christian heritage but currently overshadowed by pagan practices. While my wife and daughter chose to stay home, this became a boys’ adventure and mission to scope out the historic site with a view to [reclaiming it for Christ](/tor).

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4620-1024x768.jpeg)

Our journey began with a drive to our campsite near Cheddar Gorge. Being late October, we found ourselves the sole campers on the site, which granted us the solitude to fully immerse in our mission. The early dusk allowed us to kindle a campfire sooner, around which we shared stories and prepared for the days ahead. My sons experienced the simple joys of roasting marshmallows and making s’mores for the first time. Bobby, ever the faithful companion, added to the warmth of the evening with his playful energy.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4723-1024x768.jpeg)

Inspired by [my recent experience at XCC](/XCC) and also by Jon Tyson’s book “Intentional Father,” I saw this trip as an opportunity to guide my sons through an adventure that would challenge them and deepen their faith. The journey from the familiar to the unknown, with a mission and the prospect of spiritual battle on the horizon, had all the makings of an epic adventure.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4625-1024x768.jpeg)

Our second day commenced with the 8:00 Morning Liturgy at the magnificent Wells Cathedral. The New Testament reading was from Ephesians 6:10–18—on the nature of spiritual warfare and the full armour of God. This passage felt like a divine appointment, a call to arms that resonated deeply with our purpose for the trip.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4636-1024x768.jpeg)

As we approached Glastonbury, a massive sign greeted us: “Glastonbury: Home of Halloween.” Unbeknownst to us when planning, our visit coincided with Halloween—a day of great significance for pagan and witchcraft communities. This revelation intensified our mission, highlighting the spiritual battle we were stepping into.

Walking down the High Street, we were struck by the overt presence of paganism. We counted at least 20 shops dedicated to witchcraft and New Age practices, forming a bustling cottage industry that has turned Glastonbury into a pilgrimage site for practitioners nationwide. Men and women openly dressed as wizards and witches filled the streets, proudly displaying their spiritual allegiances. We discreetly referred to the witches/wizards as ‘tees’ to avoid drawing attention while discussing our observations among ourselves. “Dad, another pair of tees behind us!” was a regular exchange. Overall, the three of us agreed that about 70% of the people we encountered in Glastonbury were clearly involved in these practices.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4643-1024x768.jpeg)

After exploring the High Street, we visited the Glastonbury Abbey site and museum to research the area’s profound Christian heritage. Learning about its history as the Isle of Avalon, where Joseph of Arimathea is believed to have arrived with eleven disciples in AD 63, reinforced the significance of our mission. It was a poignant reminder of Glastonbury’s foundational role in bringing Christianity to the British Isles.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4711-768x1024.jpeg)

The pinnacle of our day was ascending the Glastonbury Tor. We carried our wooden cross—the same one we use during our [weekly street evangelism](/evangelism)—inscribed with “JESUS IS LORD” in English and Hebrew. This act was a deliberate, visual testimony of our faith amidst an environment that seemed to celebrate everything but.

Blessed with glorious weather, we made the climb under clear skies. Reaching the summit, we planted ourselves in prayer, declaring the lordship of Jesus Christ over the area. The panoramic views were not just a feast for the eyes but a canvas upon which we envisioned a spiritual revival.

A few people mentioned our cross in a complimentary way. One gentleman even thanked us, saying he has not seen anyone carry a cross up here in the last fourteen years and asking for a photo. Just as we were about to leave, we spotted a group of New Age practitioners in the St Michael’s Tower gathered in a tight circle and spontaneously bursting into an unintelligible chant. More and more witches/wizards joined in, and the whole thing really reminded us of the overtly pagan atmosphere atop the Tor. As we descended the hill, we could only imagine what kind of rituals would take place under St Michael’s Tower that very evening.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4716-1024x768.jpeg)

Embracing the spirit of adventure, we headed to the famous Cheddar Gorge later that afternoon. In the fading light, we embarked on an impromptu climb up one of the gorges. The path was uncertain and the climb was steep—an embodiment of stepping from safety into risk. Bobby bounded ahead; we had no idea he had this mountain goat inside of him!

At the summit, we were rewarded with breathtaking views and a profound sense of accomplishment. Sharing snacks atop the gorge, we reflected on the parallels between our physical journey and the spiritual path we are called to walk.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4734-1-1024x768.jpeg)

We returned to Wells Cathedral morning liturgy on our final morning before breakfasting and breaking camp. Packing up, we felt a mix of fulfilment and resolve. The trip had been a success, not just in terms of the adventure but in solidifying our commitment to the mission ahead. Witnessing the overt paganism in Glastonbury, especially during Halloween, highlighted the pressing need for believers to reclaim such spaces for Christ.

![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4680-1024x768.jpeg)

Our three-day journey was more than an adventure; it was a mission empowered by and protected by the Holy Spirit. The absence of my wife and daughter turned it into a unique father-son experience, allowing us to delve deeply into the challenges and joys of spiritual warfare.

We returned home with a renewed sense of purpose and a deeper bond. The journey reinforced the importance of standing firm in our faith, even when faced with overt opposition. I pray that our small steps will contribute to a larger movement—a national revival where millions will come to know Jesus as their personal Lord and Saviour, living holy lives in anticipation of His glorious return.

> “Watch, stand fast in the faith, act like men, be strong.”
> 
> 1 Corinthians 16:13
![](https://baejoseph.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/IMG_4737-1024x768.jpeg)

—-

**Update:** the fight for Britain took a new form — [I joined Restore Britain](/restore/).
