src/content/blog/sarah-club-en.md, before:

---
title: "👫 Sarah Club"
date: "2023-07-21"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "sarah-club"
featuredImage: "/assets/300r-family-first-trad-wives-1200x799-1.webp"
tags: ["family", "testimony"]
---

> "For in this manner, in former times, the holy women who trusted in God also adorned themselves, being submissive to their own husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, whose daughters you are if you do good and are not afraid with any terror."
>
> 1 Peter 3:5–6 (NKJV)

On 16 July 2023, something historically significant happened. The "Sarah Club" was officially founded at London Korean Ealing Church—charter member: Deaconess Shin-Ae Kang.

I'll be honest: I know this is countercultural. In an age that treats wifely submission as a relic of patriarchal oppression, founding a club built around it is a provocation. But I'm not interested in making Christianity comfortable for the zeitgeist. The Word says what it says, and it is good.

The three rules of Sarah Club are simple:

1. I will submit to my husband in the Lord.
2. I will always speak to my husband with honor and respect.
3. I will uphold my husband and pray for him every day.

This isn't about diminishment—it's about glory. Sarah called Abraham *lord* not because she was less than him, but because she understood something about godly order that our generation has largely forgotten. The women who live this way are, according to Peter, her *daughters*. That's not a burden. That's a lineage to be proud of.

My prayer is that this small beginning in Ealing would spread—London, Korea, the world—and become a movement that honors God until the day Jesus returns. Amen.

Commit message:

Add: end-of-post Update notes across 28 EN + 28 KO posts — forward links to related newer entries

src/content/blog/sarah-club-en.md, after:

---
title: "👫 Sarah Club"
date: "2023-07-21"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "sarah-club"
featuredImage: "/assets/300r-family-first-trad-wives-1200x799-1.webp"
tags: ["family", "testimony"]
---

> “For in this manner, in former times, the holy women who trusted in God also adorned themselves, being submissive to their own husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, whose daughters you are if you do good and are not afraid with any terror.”
>
> 1 Peter 3:5–6 (NKJV)

On 16 July 2023, something historically significant happened. The “Sarah Club” was officially founded at London Korean Ealing Church—charter member: Deaconess Shin-Ae Kang.

I’ll be honest: I know this is countercultural. In an age that treats wifely submission as a relic of patriarchal oppression, founding a club built around it is a provocation. But I’m not interested in making Christianity comfortable for the zeitgeist. The Word says what it says, and it is good.

The three rules of Sarah Club are simple:

1. I will submit to my husband in the Lord.
2. I will always speak to my husband with honor and respect.
3. I will uphold my husband and pray for him every day.

This isn’t about diminishment—it’s about glory. Sarah called Abraham *lord* not because she was less than him, but because she understood something about godly order that our generation has largely forgotten. The women who live this way are, according to Peter, her *daughters*. That’s not a burden. That’s a lineage to be proud of.

My prayer is that this small beginning in Ealing would spread—London, Korea, the world—and become a movement that honors God until the day Jesus returns. Amen.

—-

**Update:** I later wrote a fuller biblical treatment of this — [Wives, Submit to Your Husbands](/submit/).
