src/content/blog/tor.md, before:

---
title: "🏰 Retake Glastonbury"
date: "2024-07-05"
wpSlug: "tor"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "토르산"
featuredImage: "/assets/IMG_3046.jpg"

tags: ["evangelism", "travel"]
---

I asked my custom trained GPT-4o DeepGrace to come up with a five step guide how to retake the Glastonbury St Michael’s Tower 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿🇬🇧 and dedicate it again for Christ. It did not disappoint:

### 1\. Prayer and Fasting 🙏🏻🙏🏿🙏🏾:

Organise a period of dedicated prayer and fasting among believers, seeking God’s guidance and intervention. Gather the local Christian community to intercede for the spiritual reclaiming of St. Michael’s Tower, praying for the dismantling of any strongholds of darkness (2 Corinthians 10:4).

### 2\. Preach the Gospel 📖📢📖:

Assemble a group of evangelists to preach the Gospel in the area around the tower carrying a wooden cross ✝️ as a powerful symbol. Share the message of salvation through Jesus Christ with those practicing paganism, offering them the hope and truth found in the Word of God (Romans 10:17).

### 3\. Spiritual Warfare 🪖🛡️🗡️ :

Engage in spiritual warfare by putting on the full armor of God (Ephesians 6:10-18). Stand firm in faith, using the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, to combat any spiritual forces of evil present at the tower. Conduct prayer walks around the tower, declaring the lordship of Jesus Christ over the area.

### 4\. Discipleship and Support ⛪️🏃🏻‍♂️🔥:

Establish discipleship programs for new converts, teaching them to observe all that Jesus has commanded (Matthew 28:19-20). Provide support and fellowship for those who turn away from pagan practices and witchcraft etc, helping them to grow in their newfound faith and become strong witnesses for Christ.

### 5\. Rededication Ceremony 🔥🏺🚿:

Conduct a public rededication ceremony at St. Michael’s Tower, where countless believers young and old can gather around Glastonbury Tor in Yeshua’s Name to spontaneously sing praises to God as led by the Holy Spirit. Anoint the tower with oil as a symbol of consecration (James 5:14) and install a permanent cross atop Tor as a declaration of Christ’s victory and lordship over the area (Colossians 2:15). This symbolic act will serve as a powerful testament to the world that the site has been reclaimed for God’s glory until the glorious Second Coming of Christ.

Taking back the Glastonbury Tor will be followed by a national revival of Great Britain where millions and millions will once again come to know Jesus of Nazareth as their personal Lord and Saviour and come to live holy lives in eager anticipation of the glorious rapture.

Commit message:

Add: end-of-post Update notes across 28 EN + 28 KO posts — forward links to related newer entries

src/content/blog/tor.md, after:

---
title: "🏰 Retake Glastonbury"
date: "2024-07-05"
wpSlug: "tor"
lang: "en"
pairedSlug: "토르산"
featuredImage: "/assets/IMG_3046.jpg"

tags: ["evangelism", "travel"]
---

I asked my custom trained GPT-4o DeepGrace to come up with a five step guide how to retake the Glastonbury St Michael’s Tower 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿🇬🇧 and dedicate it again for Christ. It did not disappoint:

### 1\. Prayer and Fasting 🙏🏻🙏🏿🙏🏾:

Organise a period of dedicated prayer and fasting among believers, seeking God’s guidance and intervention. Gather the local Christian community to intercede for the spiritual reclaiming of St. Michael’s Tower, praying for the dismantling of any strongholds of darkness (2 Corinthians 10:4).

### 2\. Preach the Gospel 📖📢📖:

Assemble a group of evangelists to preach the Gospel in the area around the tower carrying a wooden cross ✝️ as a powerful symbol. Share the message of salvation through Jesus Christ with those practicing paganism, offering them the hope and truth found in the Word of God (Romans 10:17).

### 3\. Spiritual Warfare 🪖🛡️🗡️ :

Engage in spiritual warfare by putting on the full armor of God (Ephesians 6:10–18). Stand firm in faith, using the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, to combat any spiritual forces of evil present at the tower. Conduct prayer walks around the tower, declaring the lordship of Jesus Christ over the area.

### 4\. Discipleship and Support ⛪️🏃🏻‍♂️🔥:

Establish discipleship programs for new converts, teaching them to observe all that Jesus has commanded (Matthew 28:19–20). Provide support and fellowship for those who turn away from pagan practices and witchcraft etc, helping them to grow in their newfound faith and become strong witnesses for Christ.

### 5\. Rededication Ceremony 🔥🏺🚿:

Conduct a public rededication ceremony at St. Michael’s Tower, where countless believers young and old can gather around Glastonbury Tor in Yeshua’s Name to spontaneously sing praises to God as led by the Holy Spirit. Anoint the tower with oil as a symbol of consecration (James 5:14) and install a permanent cross atop Tor as a declaration of Christ’s victory and lordship over the area (Colossians 2:15). This symbolic act will serve as a powerful testament to the world that the site has been reclaimed for God’s glory until the glorious Second Coming of Christ.

Taking back the Glastonbury Tor will be followed by a national revival of Great Britain where millions and millions will once again come to know Jesus of Nazareth as their personal Lord and Saviour and come to live holy lives in eager anticipation of the glorious rapture.

—-

**Update:** we actually went — [spiritual recon report here](/recon/).
